<0.25.10.91.08.32.13.avac+@AVA.ADM.CS.CMU.EDU (Ava Cruse).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.scs
Topic:    PS Seminar
Dates:    4-Nov-91
Time:     3:30 PM - 5:00 PM
Host:     David Garlan
PostedBy: avac+ on 25-Oct-91 at 08:32 from AVA.ADM.CS.CMU.EDU (Ava Cruse)
Abstract: 

                                PS SEMINAR

                          Monday, November 4, 1991
                               3:30PM-5:00PM
                                  WeH 5409
                        Nathaniel S. Borenstein
                                Bellcore

                Moving Multimedia Mail into the Mainstream:  
                   Four Ideas for the Email of Tomorrow

Email in general, and multimedia mail in particular, have long suffered
from the problems of the lowest common denominator.  Because email is a
shared community venture, it is most useful only when its avialability
is nearly ubiquitous.  Fancy features that only work with one
mail-reading program, such as the multimedia features of NeXT mail or
the Andrew Message System, generally fall into disuse in a heterogeneous
environment where the lowest common denominator prevails.  In this talk,
I will present four new developments that are intended to make it easier
to raise the lowest common denominators.

The first development is a new "bottom-up" approach to multimedia mail,
implemented at Bellcore as "metamail,"  a tool for extending mail
systems.  With metamail,  adding a new type of multimedia mail to all
the local mail readers becomes as simple as installing a new executable
and adding a line to a "mailcap" file.  Metamail support has been added
to fifteen different mail reading programs, giving users of such
programs as Berkeley Mail, MH, Elm, Emacs rmail, and many others the
ability to receive a wide variety of media types in the mail.

The second development, a programming language known as ATOMICMAIL (*)
(formerly MAGICMAIL), is an example of a new type of functionality that
can be added to mail systems using metamail.  It is a programming
language that has been designed expressly for remote execution via
electronic mail.  In order to make this concept safe and practical, it
was necessary to constrain the language it some interesting ways.  The
net result is a language that is totally portable in its user interface
mechanisms, and restricted to the extent that it is safe to run a
program sent by a hostile source.  Surprisingly, despite these
restrictions, a large number of useful applications have already been
proposed, and many of them have already been implemented.

The third development is the emergence of a new Internet mechanism,
which will soon be a draft standard, for sending multimedia mail on the
Internet.  This document, which extends RFC 822, provides for typed mail
messages, including multipart messages, which include rich text, audio,
image, video, and other formats in a standard manner.  This mechanism
has recently been used to interoperate multimedia mail between four
entirely independent implementations, and has the potential to fulfill
the promise inherent in Andrew and other multimedia mail systems.

In order to put all these pieces together in a practical manner,
flexibility is not enough.  The necessary fourth development, therefore,
will be the emergence of a new consensus on the lowest common
denominator.  At Bellcore, work on integrating electronic mail and
telephony points the way toward universal email service that includes
rich text (in a format that can easily be reduced to plain text), active
mail (e.g. ATOMICMAIL), and audio and image data (which can be presented
to users of low-end terminals via telephones and fax machines).  Only by
making such mechanism available nearly universally to low-end users will
it be possible to create a social milleu in which users of high-end
workstations will feel comfortable with generating and sending 
multimedia mail.

(*) ATOMICMAIL is a trademark of Bellcore.
______________________________________________________________

 Host:  David Garlan

If you are interested in speaking with Nathaniel Borenstein while is here
Monday, please send mail to Ava Cruse at avac@b.cs.cmu.edu
